What has had the greatest impact on you?
I mean on screams, it would have been probably around the time of the coronation, it would have
been the pictures of Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tenzing climbing Everest. Because my mother
reckons anyway that as soon as I could crawl I started to climb. But that gave it a kind of
focus. It seemed a proper thing to do, the kind of thing that men did. And as a very, very young
boy, I mean I was six when Everest was first climbed. You know, mountain climbing was always
something I wanted to do then. So that was very important. I think the news has always been very
important to me, that's what I forgot to tell you. I'm a terrible news junkie, not as bad as I used
to be, nothing like as bad as I used to be. And I don't like 24-hour rolling news, I hate it.
Because I think it distorts what we do, I think it has a huge effect on our behaviour.
But there are a lot of things that I've watched on the news that have had a big impact on me.
The reports from Vietnam, you know, really the first live reports
streamed from battlefields, they had a big effect on me. And in a way, news was always an extension,
Pathé news that I used to watch in Aberdare. I mean Aberdare was a town that had a lot of cinemas,
and I used to go to the cinema a lot. I can remember the very first film that my mother took us to see,
my mother loved the cinema, and she took us to see, I think she was probably quite unhappy in
Aberdare for quite a long time, because she was a my stage girl. And the first film I can
never remember going to see was Samson and Delilah with Victor Matheur and Hedy Lamarr.
Who was stunning, by the way, she really was amazing. Victor Matheur wasn't much of an actor,
but he had great pectoral muscles. A lot of me said that.